Indonesia, officially the Republic of Indonesia (Indonesian: Republik Indonesiaⓘ), is a country in Southeast Asia and Oceania between the Indian and Pacific Oceans.  It is made up of more than 17,000 islands, including Sumatra, Java, Sulawesi, and parts of Borneo and New Guinea. Indonesia is the world's largest archipelagic state and the 14th largest country by area, at 1,904,569 square kilometers. With around 280 million people, Indonesia is the fourth most populous country in the world and the most populous Muslim-majority country. Java, the most populous island in the world, is home to more than half of the country's population.

Indonesia is a republic with a legislative branch and a president elected by suffrage, the government has its headquarters in the capital of Jakarta, although due to the environmental and overpopulation problems it suffers, the transfer of the capital of the country to the new one is planned. planned capital city: Nusantara.[5] Being largely an archipelago, the country shares land borders with Papua New Guinea, East Timor and Malaysia. Other countries close to Indonesia include Singapore, Thailand, the Philippines, Palau, Australia and the Indian territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands.

The Indonesian archipelago has been an important region for global trade since the 7th century, when the kingdom of Srivijaya began trade with China and India. Gradually, local rulers adopted the culture, religion and political model of the Indians and in the 1st century AD. C. several Hindu and Buddhist kingdoms began to flourish in the region. Indonesian history has been influenced by foreign powers that sought to exploit its natural resources. After Muslim traders brought Islam and during the Age of Discovery, European powers began to dispute the monopoly of the spice trade in the Moluccan Islands. After three and a half centuries of Dutch colonialism, Indonesia gained its independence shortly after World War II. Since then, Indonesia's history has been turbulent, with the country having faced major challenges posed by natural disasters, corruption, separatism, the democratization process and periods of economic change.

Across its many islands, the Indonesian people are made up of different ethnic, linguistic and religious groups. The Javanese are the largest and most politically dominant ethnic group. It has developed a shared identity defined by a national language, ethnic diversity, religious pluralism within a Muslim-majority population, and a history of ongoing colonialism and the struggle against it. Indonesia's national motto, Bhinneka Tunggal Ika ("Unity in Diversity"), articulates the diversity that makes up the nation. However, sectarian tensions and separatism have led to violent clashes that have undermined the country's political and economic stability. Despite its large population, Indonesia has vast uninhabited areas that make it one of the countries in the world with the greatest biodiversity, which is why it belongs to the list of megadiverse countries.[6]​